docs:  fix context information in guides (#2902)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/guides/metadata.md

#  Add metadata to your application

> This guide will walk you through the usage of Context Metadata in Keptn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through the usage of context metadata in Keptn.
```
I'm thinking this should not be capitalized.  What do others think?

After reading this guide you will be able to: 
- add metadata to applications, workloads
and tasks in two ways.

> - add those same information also in traces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- add metadata information to traces
```

## Introduction

> `KeptnAppContext` is a custom resource in Keptn that allows you to add metadata
> and links to traces for a specific application.
> This enables you to enrich your Keptn resources and your traces with additional
> information, making it easier to understand and analyze
> the performance of your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content metadata is additional information 
that can be added to your `KeptnApp` resource and links

This enables you to enrich your Keptn resources and your traces with additional
information, making it easier to understand and analyze
the performance of your applications.
Metadata is added with the
`KeptnAppContext` custom resource.
```
Move this to the very beginning (minus the "Introduction" header, then follow it with your intro to this guide.

Author: I think we need to rework this again, the message is not 100% correct: metadata can be added as annotation to a deployment/any workload or using a Context CRD I should highlight that in the intro to make sense of the two following sections

> Common usage of this feature may include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common uses of this feature include:
```

> - adding commit id or references related to your GitOps/ CI-CD tooling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- adding commit id or references related to your GitOps and CI-CD tooling
```

> - referring to different stages and actors 
> (ex. who committed this change? In what repo? What is the referred ticket? Was it a hot fix? )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- referencing different stages and actors 
such as who committed this change? In what repo? What is the associated ticket? Was it a hot fix? )
```

> 
> To exploit this feature you need to install Keptn and deploy an application,
> for instance, you can follow [step #1-#3 here](../getting-started/observability.md#step-1-install-keptn)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Before you start

1. Install Keptn
1. Deploy an application,
for instance, you can follow [step #1-#3 here](../getting-started/observability.md#step-1-install-keptn)
```
Should the "install" item be a link to "Installation"?

Author: I am uncertain how to do this, in one way it could be easier for the user to follow if we refer to the application deployment in the getting started so I initially thought to leave only that reference...

> To visualize traces you will require either Jaeger or Grafana:

Reviewer 2: Jaeger will be required in any case in order to be able to collect the traces, as Grafana will use Jaeger as a data source. Maybe we can word it something like:

```suggestion
To collect traces you will require Jaeger.
To visualise and inspect the traces, you can either use the Jaeger UI or Grafana.
```

> To visualize traces you will require either Jaeger or Grafana:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To visualize traces you will require either Jaeger or Grafana:
```
Plus Flo's suggestion for exact wording

- Install
  [Grafana](https://grafana.com/grafana/)
  following the instructions in [Grafana Setup](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/)
  or the visualization tool of your choice.
- Install
  [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/)
  or a similar tool for traces following the instructions in
  [Jaeger Setup](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.50/getting-started/).

## Include metadata in workload traces

> To enrich the workload traces with custom metadata, you can use the
> `keptn.sh/metadata` annotation in your deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enrich the workload traces with custom metadata, use the
`keptn.sh/metadata` annotation in your deployment.
```

The values specified in the annotation
are added as key-value attributes to the workload trace.

> Modify your deployment file adding`keptn.sh/metadata: "stage=dev"` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify your Deployment file adding`keptn.sh/metadata: "stage=dev"` annotation.
```
Should this be "Deployment" yaml file?  And should we explain the meaning of `stage=dev` and what other values might be used?

> To see any change Keptn will have to redeploy: bump the `app.kubernetes.io/version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the changes Keptn must redeploy: increment the `app.kubernetes.io/version`
```

(ex. if you are following our getting started guide change the version

> from `0.0.2` to `0.0.3`) or change the `keptn.sh/version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from `0.0.2` to `0.0.3`) or change the `keptn.sh/version` value
```

if you used the Keptn specific labels in your deployment yaml file.

This way, after the re-deployment, the workload trace will contain the `stage=dev` attribute.

## Include metadata in application traces

Similar to the previous step, custom metadata can also be added to application traces via the
[KeptnAppContext](../reference/api-reference/lifecycle/v1beta1/index.md#keptnappcontext) custom resource.
In the `.spec.metadata` field you can define multiple key-value pairs, which are propagated
to the application trace as attributes in the same manner as for workloads.

> In addition to adding the metadata to the application trace, the key-value pairs are also added
> to each workload trace that is part of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key-value pairs that are added to the application trace are also added
to each workload trace that is part of the application.
```

If the same key is specified for both
application and workload metadata attributes,
values specified for the workload take precedence.

A `KeptnAppContext` custom resource looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1beta1
kind: KeptnAppContext
metadata:
  name: keptndemoapp
  namespace: keptndemo
spec:
  metadata:
    commit-id: "1234"
    author: "myUser"
```

> After applying the `KeptnAppContext` to your cluster, you need to bump the version of your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the `KeptnAppContext` to your cluster, you need to increment the version of your
```

application by modifying your deployment file and changing the
value of the`app.kubernetes.io/version` field (or `keptn.sh/version` if you used the Keptn specific labels earlier).
(Alternatively you could apply the context resource before or together with the workloads)

After deploying the `KeptnAppContext` resource and re-deploying the application,

> Keptn will trigger another deployment of your Application with the new context metadata, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn triggers another deployment of your application with the new context metadata, 
```

# Add metadata to your application

This guide walks you through the usage of context metadata in Keptn.

After reading this guide you will be able to:

- add metadata to applications, workloads
  and tasks in two ways.
- add metadata information about applications to their traces

## Introduction

Context metadata in Keptn are all those additional information that can
be added to applications, workloads and task.

There are two ways to add such metadata: using `keptn.sh/metadata` annotation and using `KeptnAppContext`,
in the following section we will explore both.

Common uses of this feature include:

- adding commit id or references related to your GitOps and CI-CD tooling
- referencing different stages and actors
  such as who committed this change? 
  In what repo?  
  What is the associated ticket? 

>   Was it a hot fix?

Author: mm why ?It is rendered as a nice little sentence in the website 🤔

from `0.0.2` to `0.0.3`) or change the `keptn.sh/version` value
if you used the Keptn specific labels in your deployment yaml file.

This way, after the re-deployment, the workload trace will contain the `stage=dev` attribute.

## Include metadata in application traces

Similar to the previous step, custom metadata can also be added to application traces via the
[KeptnAppContext](../reference/api-reference/lifecycle/v1beta1/index.md#keptnappcontext) custom resource.

`KeptnAppContext` is a custom resource in Keptn that allows you to add metadata
and links to traces for a specific application.
This enables you to enrich your Keptn resources and your traces with additional
information, making it easier to understand and analyze
the performance of your applications.

In the `.spec.metadata` field you can define multiple key-value pairs, which are propagated
to the application trace as attributes in the same manner as for workloads.

The key-value pairs that are added to the application trace are also added
to each workload trace that is part of the application.
If the same key is specified for both
application and workload metadata attributes,

> values specified for the workload take precedence.

Author: what about a note?

A `KeptnAppContext` custom resource looks like the following:

```yaml
{ % include "./assets/keptn-app-context.yaml" % }
```

After applying the `KeptnAppContext` to your cluster, you need to increment the version of your
application by modifying your deployment file and changing the
value of the`app.kubernetes.io/version` field (or `keptn.sh/version` if you used the Keptn specific labels earlier).
(Alternatively you could apply the context resource before or together with the workloads)

After deploying the `KeptnAppContext` resource and re-deploying the application,
Keptn triggers another deployment of your application with the new context metadata,
and all traces will contain commit-id=1234,author=myUser.
In other words, you should be able to see the application trace as well as the workload trace
contain the defined metadata as key-value attributes.

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You've learned how to use `KeptnAppContext` to add
metadata to applications and their traces.
This can be valuable for understanding the context of your traces and
establishing connections between
different versions and stages of your application.

> What's next? Explore more about [traces on Keptn](./otel.md).

Author: I can change the title above? Having one line between title sounds ugly to me

---
comments: true
---

> # Add metadata to your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Context metadata
```
I'd like a shorter title and I think it should be something other than just "metadata" because this isn't about general metadata.

Whatever title you use needs to match the title in mkdocs.yml so that the title in the left frame matches the title displayed for the page.

This guide walks you through the usage of context metadata in Keptn.

After reading this guide you will be able to:

- add metadata to applications, workloads
  and tasks in two ways
- add metadata information about applications to their traces

## Introduction

Context metadata in Keptn is defined as all additional information that can
be added to applications, workloads and tasks.

> There are two ways to add such metadata: using the `keptn.sh/metadata` annotation and using the  `KeptnAppContext` CRD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Context metadata can be added to your application
in either of the following was:

- Use the `keptn.sh/metadata` annotation in your
[KeptnApp](../reference/crd-reference/app.md) resource
- Use the  `KeptnAppContext` resource
```
Sentences beginning with "There are" are inherently weak and should be avoided.  I think putting these options in a list makes them stand out better to people who don't read carefully ;-)

Author: this is not 100% the case but I will fix 👍

---
comments: true
---

# Add metadata to your application

This guide walks you through the usage of context metadata in Keptn.

After reading this guide you will be able to:

- add metadata to applications, workloads
  and tasks in two ways
- add metadata information about applications to their traces

## Introduction

Context metadata in Keptn is defined as all additional information that can
be added to applications, workloads and tasks.

There are two ways to add such metadata: using the `keptn.sh/metadata` annotation and using the  `KeptnAppContext` CRD.
In the following section we will explore both.

Common uses of this feature include:

- adding a commit ID or references related to your GitOps and CI-CD tooling
- referencing different stages and actors
  such as who committed this change?
  In what repo?
  What is the associated ticket?

>   Was it a hot fix?

Reviewer 3: this still needs an unordered sub-list IMO :D

> - referencing different stages and actors
>   such as who committed this change?
>   In what repo?
>   What is the associated ticket?
>   Was it a hot fix?

Author: ```suggestion
- referencing different stages and actors
  such as: who committed the change, in what repo, for what ticket...
```

This way, after the re-deployment, the workload trace will contain the `stage=dev` attribute.

## Include metadata in application traces

Similar to the previous step, custom metadata can also be added to application traces via the
[KeptnAppContext](../reference/api-reference/lifecycle/v1beta1/index.md#keptnappcontext) CRD.

`KeptnAppContext` is a custom resource definition in Keptn that allows you to add metadata
and links to traces for a specific application.
This enables you to enrich your Keptn resources and your traces with additional
information, making it easier to understand and analyze
the performance of your applications.

In the `.spec.metadata` field you can define multiple key-value pairs, which are propagated
to the application trace as attributes in the same manner as for workloads.

> **Note** The key-value pairs that are added to the application trace are also added
to each workload trace that is part of the application.
If the same key is specified for both
application and workload metadata attributes,
values specified for the workload take precedence.

A `KeptnAppContext` custom resource looks like the following:

```yaml

> { % include "./assets/metadata/keptn-app-context.yaml" % }

Reviewer 3: this include doesn't work for some reason, maybe the whitespaces

```suggestion
{% include "./assets/metadata/keptn-app-context.yaml" %}
```
